feat: added Developer Update 135 (#247)
tari-project/tari-dot-com: _updates/2024-10-11-update-135.md

---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2024-10-04
author: solivagant
thumbnail: dev-update.jpg
title: The Tari Constant
class: subpage
---

Another week, another update. the Universe, much like its namesake, continues to expand at an astronomical rate, and we have you to thank for it. We'd like to share some stats regarding the known Universe:

> * The [Tari Universe waitlist](universe.tari.com) is now sitting at over 250,000 sign-ups.

Reviewer: this link needs an http

* Over 13,000 installs of Tari Universe, and over 6,800 of those installs having mined at some point.
* On average, 16% of active miners are winning a block every hour.

Interest in Universe has also been driving parties to the underlying [Tari protocol and base apps](https://github.com/tari-project/tari), and as a result the combined mining on our testnet has reached over 800GHs for our SHA3x GPU hashrate - an almost 6500% increase from where we were at the start of last week.

We've also had to learn some hard lessons as Tari is now being stress-tested in the only way that truly matters: in the wild and in the hands of users. Reliability of installation and updates, general network connectivity, high network fragmentation, and the ability to recover from some common user errors have all reared their head, and our developers have been spearing them as they breached. Again, thanks for your patience and detailed feedback that allows us to address these issues timeously.

### New Tari Universe Developments

> To this end Our devs have been slaving away in the commit mines, and thanks to their efforts Universe has seen some great new features and stability fixes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To this end the community has been slaving away in the commit mines, and thanks to their efforts Universe has seen some great new features and stability fixes:
```

> * Like our Mac and Linux versions, Tor is now enabled by default on Tari Universe for Windows users. This has helped resolve many of the network connectivity issues that were impacting user's experience with Tari Universe in the past week. It's important that users understand what Tor is and how it works. You can find out [more about Tor here](https://tlu.tarilabs.com/protocols/intro-to-tor-and-i2p#tor-network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Like our Mac and Linux versions, Tor is now enabled by default on Tari Universe for Windows users. This has helped resolve many of the network connectivity issues that were impacting user's experience with Tari Universe in the past week. You can find out [more about Tor here](https://tlu.tarilabs.com/protocols/intro-to-tor-and-i2p#tor-network).
```

> * [We've added CDN mirrors for the dependencies](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/658) that are downloaded when installing and subsequently updating Universe, as well as some additional, automated downloads of unique dependencies in different environments (such the requirement for Visual C++ Redistributable Installer in Windows). This ensures better reliability both installing Universe for the first time and keeping it up-to-date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [We've added CDN mirrors for the dependencies](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/658) that are downloaded when installing and subsequently updating Universe, as well as some additional, automated downloads of unique dependencies in different environments . This ensures better reliability both installing Universe for the first time and keeping it up-to-date.
```

* There have been various graphical improvements and user enhancements to the experience of winning blocks, [earning gems](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/682) and [tracking your win history](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/723).

## Minotari - Base Layer
### Ledger Wallet Now Available

> While it's been in the releases for a while, we wanted to highlight that we've started including a version of our [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com) wallet app for the Nano Plus with our [Minotari releases](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/releases) assets, which can be manually side-loaded on the Nano Plus. In addition, this week we've added added support for the Stax and Flex devices, although the app currently has to be built from source and do have some known issues for these two. If you would like to know more, you can head over to project and [check the readme.](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/tree/development/applications/minotari_ledger_wallet/wallet) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it's been in the releases for a while, we wanted to highlight that we include a version of our [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com) wallet app for the Nano S Plus with our [Minotari releases](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/releases) assets, which can be manually side-loaded on the Nano S Plus. In addition, this week we've added added support for the Stax and Flex devices, although the app currently has to be built from source and do have some known issues for these two. If you would like to know more, you can head over to project and [check the readme.](https://github.com/tari-project/tari/tree/development/applications/minotari_ledger_wallet/wallet) for more details.
```

---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2024-10-04
author: solivagant
thumbnail: dev-update.jpg
title: The Tari Constant
class: subpage
---

Another week, another update. the Universe, much like its namesake, continues to expand at an astronomical rate, and we have you to thank for it. We'd like to share some stats regarding the known Universe:

* The [Tari Universe waitlist](https://universe.tari.com) is now sitting at over 250,000 sign-ups.

> * Over 13,000 installs of Tari Universe, and over 6,800 of those installs having mined at some point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Over 14,500 installs of Tari Universe
```

* [We've added CDN mirrors for the dependencies](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/658) that are downloaded when installing and subsequently updating Universe, as well as some additional, automated downloads of unique dependencies in different environments . This ensures better reliability both installing Universe for the first time and keeping it up-to-date.
* There have been various graphical improvements and user enhancements to the experience of winning blocks, [earning gems](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/682) and [tracking your win history](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/723).
* We'd like to give a shoutout to our community who have helped contribute German and French localizations: [W666lker (German)](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/802), [firebomb (French)](https://github.com/tari-project/universe/pull/717), 

## Minotari - Base Layer

> ### Ledger Wallet Now Available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Unofficial Ledger Wallet Now Available
```
